So we've talked about CMS, we've talked
about working with just the indexed HTML,
but most projects are not gonna be run
that way, that's just the reality.
Most people have bought in fully
to the tool chain system, and so
it's time that we did so too.
For those who come from
the Vue2 ecosystem,
you're probably used to
scaffolding your app with Vue CLI.
But there's been a new kid on the block
in terms of the whole web pack build tool
chain, and if you haven't heard about it,
it's called Vite.
And one of the great things about Vite,
basically what you need to know,
is that it's a bundler underneath that's
helping to push to front end tooling
to use more ES modules.
Basically, it helps to make
apps more performance.
And what's really nice about Vito as well
is that even though avenue the creator of
view is one of the founders
of the Vue technology,
it's a multi framework tooling.
And so it's really nice to see a lot
of framer starting to gather around it.
And so for anyone who's interested
in this kind of stuff, and want to
see like helping to create plugins so
that other frameworks can leverage that,
Vite's doing a very good job as far
as bringing the community together.
But because of all these
performance optimizations though,
Vue CLI currently still uses a web pack
and so it basically has been deprecated in
favor of the create-vue, which is
the new basically equivalent of Vue CLI.
And for this one,
this has Vite powering it underneath.
And so this is where the shift is.
So going forward, if you're creating a new
Vue 3 app, and you have the luxury of
using Vite underneath, create-vue is the
basically recommended way going forward.
So let's go ahead and create a project and
see what that looks like, shall we?
To do that, we're gonna run the command
npm-create vue3 inside of our project.
So, I'm gonna go ahead and
just close some of this off now.
And let's go ahead and
open this up, npm-create-vue @3.
And so one of the things that's really
nice about the modern built tool chains
these days is that you don't have to
install a massive CLI on your computer
only to use it a couple of times
maybe like a year or something.
It's kind of being called on in the fly,
because NPM knows,
you want to temporarily install something,
I'll basically bring down the package.
I'll use it and then after that, I won't
you won't be on your machine anymore.
So for this one I'm just gonna call mine
sandbox right now because I want to show
you all what kind of what's inside, and
then you all will have an opportunity to
create your own building on
what we've been doing today.
All right, so we might need a sandbox.
And so
at first glance you see at TypeScript.
Your first glance,
your first impression might be,
I'm definitely using TypeScript hit no.
I'm gonna say hit Yes.
And the short reason for that is because
when view gives you the option to add
the TypeScript, what it's saying is it's
not saying you have to use TypeScript.
It's saying,
we're gonna configure everything so
that if you ever choose is really easy.
No configurations needed.
There will be one of two lines a couple
of add to make it basically like,
ignore any type script errors.
But one of the things that I found that
is really painful when it comes to code
migrations is that people who wanna
star sprinkling in type script,
usually the build tool
should blossom doing that.
Because they're like,
I just wanna try types.
And than it is like you have to look at
this config file then you have to do a ts
config and then by the time that obstacle
is getting started can be super expensive.
And so, if you didn't know
there's a view three and
TypeScript workshop that I did
you can watch that separately.
But generally speaking, what I'm saying
here is that this is great for code bases
in the sense that like, you can only have
one if one person wants to use types on
one file, they can, you don't have to
enforce it across the entire code base.
And that's the benefit of
having that configured.
As you can see here, JSX support.
This is something I do wanna address,
especially for
those coming from the React background
is that you can use JSX with Vue.
If you've been seeing us do a lot with
native HTML, but just know that if you
really love JSX, and you don't want to
use native HTML, you can still do that.
But personally, I do find it's
advantageous to use native HTML, but
just know that Vue can totally support
that if that's something you prefer.
We're not gonna worry about view
router right now or Penia, and
we're not doing any end to end but
sure, let's add ES lint and prettier.
So for those who are new to the tool
chain space ES lint is basically and
prettier are ways to standardize how
your code is formatted and how it looks.
So things like whether tabs
are two spaces four spaces or
actual tabs semicolons those sort of
things that's how you kind of can enforce
consistency across your codebase.
So let's take a look at
what's actually in here.
So inside of my sandbox directory you
now see a standard Vue project that
scaffolded in Vite.
So a couple of things here, one, we have a
source directory which is fairly standard
on front end client
framework apps these days.
We have the public directory,
which is gonna be what's served and
basically to users.
So basically,
think of the public directory as the build
tools will not do anything to it.
It'll just be bundled with
your code when you serve it.
So basically no asset optimization,
none of that.
And then what we can see here as
well is we have an index HTML.
And this is where you can see actually
how your code is basically being built.
In the sense that like,
If you wanna drop Google Font libraries,
it's as simple now as coming
into your index HTML file and
just dropping in your link to your
style sheets, whatever you need.
And then here we can see we
have our div app as well.
And then script type module here main.ts,
and
this main.ts refers to this file
inside of our source directory.
And so you can see this should
look actually pretty familiar.
We're importing the create app
helper method from view, and
then we're creating an app with that.
And then we're mounting it
to the div ID right here.
And so
that's where you see that inside of index.
Actually, let me split this window,
so that we can get them side by side.
So there we go.
This is where these two
are talking to each other, and
then you'll notice that we're
also importing some CSS as well.
And I'll talk more to
this in a little bit.
Okay, so to show you just how everything
works, let me go ahead and go inside of
the sandbox, and I'm going to install
the dependencies by running npm install.
So while we're doing that, what I'd
like people to do is if you look up
Vue DevTools on your browser,
you should basically get basically,
whether it's Chrome,
Firefox should have it as well.
You should get an extension that
you should be able to install here.
So Vue.js DevTools, you'll see it has
about 1,800 at the time of this recording.
And so you wanna install this because
this is what actually showing up here and
so if you click on your extensions you
can go ahead and pin it if it's not.
It's hidden right now for you,
cuz we'll be using that to
explore what the view data does for
us when it comes looking at a Vue project.
Okay, so inside of here we can
see everything is running now,
so we look at package.json now, let's see
what commands we have available to us.
Well, we have the ability to dev, okay?
And then,
there's a bunch of types of stuff,
we're not even gonna worry
about that right now.
So, npm run dev, all right?
Great.
And let's open that up, there we go.
As we can see,
this is your Hello World Vue application.
Now, when we take a look now,
you'll notice that the dev tools,
if you have that installed,
will actually go ahead and light up.
And so if you open up your console now,
and you go into the drop down, or
if you have a really wide monitor,
you might already see it, but
mine's hidden since it's
a little bit bigger.
Let's click on Vue,
you'll see that here we go.
We have the Dev item, basically,
our entire app now is able to
be inspected inside of here.
So what we're seeing here is
basically we're starting to introduce
the idea of components, right?
Components driven development is really
popular in today's modern front end
frameworks.
And so as you would expect,
Vue certainly supports components, and
we'll be doing a lot more with that.
Now that we have the build
tool chain supported.
So what's cool about this is that you
can see as you click on the different
components, it'll actually tell
you a little bit about it.
And so you can see that yes,
here in the welcome,
there's a bunch of stuff being set up.
The HelloWorld here has a message.
We'll be using this a lot to inspect
what's going on underneath the components.
So definitely keep this in mind when we
start to move forward on other things.
So, what we're gonna do
is I'm gonna go ahead and
port over the playground that I had made.
And we're gonna go ahead and
actually use that to create the app.
So to kinda show you what's going on.
So, the main thing to understand
here is that inside of the main.ts,
you'll see here inside of this app Vue.
And so, dot view files are the bread and
butter of one of the reasons why I
think view also got really popular.
And so,
these are called single file components.
And so, they're single file components
because, well, they have a lot going on.
But you might notice, though, is that none
of my syntax highlighting is working.
And the reason for that is because
you need to actually enable a VS Code
extension and the one that I recommend,
actually kind of the standard actually,
is volear, V- O- L- E- A- R.
So if you're using VS Code, go ahead and
install that on your machine
while you're while you're at it.
So I'm gonna go ahead and enable mine.
And it does a ton of stuff for you.
Honestly, there could probably be a half
day lecture just on Volar alone, but
know that it helps you out
with syntax highlighting, and
a couple of other things as well.
Okay, so instead of App.vue, you might
notice this should look pretty familiar to
you, in the sense that okay, we have this
this part here this template this is HTML.
And this template element believe it or
not is actually built
on a standard in HTML.
The template element is actually
a built-in thing takes email,
it's not just a Vue thing.
But basically it says, hey, this is HTML
that I'm managing in this specific file.
The script block is what you expect.
Here's the JavaScript that I'm managing.
And here we even have a style block,
and that's the manage all the CSS.
And so as you can see,
the reason why it's called single file
components is because it basically allows
you to scope all do things that
you care about into a single file.
And that might sound like what's so
special about that, but
we have to remember prior to this a lot
of times what people were doing is they
would have an app.html.
For example, for the template they'd
have an app.js for the JavaScript, and
then they have an app.css, for the CSS.
And to some extent, there's nothing
wrong with that architecture, but for
a lot of us who, especially when
you're navigating back between files,
it's actually really helpful just
to have it all in one place.
And that's at least that's
what I found in my experience.
Now, granted, there's nothing stopping
you from choosing your own adventure.
So these all these blocks here,
they're optional.
So I can delete this.
And we can just, we can only use
the template and the script.
And the other thing that people often
misunderstand when it comes to single file
components as well,
is that the script template and
style blocks are just what's
default out of the box.
There are actually other libraries and
plugins that utilize
things like a docs plugin.
And so it'll use a docs tag wrapper, and
then basically whatever you document there
will be associated with
that specific component.
And so
really it's actually an open canvas for
people's imaginations when it comes
to how they might wanna scope,
how information is being managed
across their code base, all right?
So let's go ahead and
migrate some stuff over, shall we?
So I'm going to go ahead and
open up my playground here.
Let's do that and
then switch that over here, all right?
Let me zoom out a little bit.
So I think it's a little bit harder to
wait, can I zoom in a little bit harder?
Here we go.
Okay.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
delete this boilerplate stuff.
You all will understand how this
works by the end of the workshop, so
don't worry there.
But this way we keep it simple we have
a script block we have a template block,
in other words our JavaScript and
our HTML.
So what we can do here is we can basically
copy in our HTML here to bum, bum,
bum, bum, bum,
bum all the way down to the div.
And we're gonna go ahead and
drop it inside of our template.
Okay, a lot of things are going
to be breaking right now, and
that's totally fine.
Because what we got to do, we got to
copy all this data that we have here.
So we have a bunch of
stuff inside of here, and
we're just going to copy all of it,
or in this case.
I'm cutting it, the main difference
in tactically speaking though,
is that what we got to do is rather
than saying like create an app here,
because the app has already been created,
we basically are saying,
let's export the object that
we're going to be using.
So in other words,
here is the specific object that will
reflect the JavaScript for this file.
There we go, okay?
So what we see here, we're back to
the point where we have our data here, and
we have all the stuff that we just
copy pasted and we have our template.
So we see some stuff yelling at us.
Yep.
We'll talk about that in a little bit.
And so let's see if this
actually did anything for us.
So you'll notice who, okay?
Our data is there, it's just super messy.
The reason it's super
messy is because we have,
[SOUND] inside of our main.ts,
you saw earlier we have this main.css.
We're gonna wipe that out, cuz right now,
we just wanna work with standard things
and make sure everything's just working.
And so sure enough, there we go.
We have our app, and okay.
So the first thing I want to address
here is that you'll notice now before we
weren't getting any sort of errors
when we did the index HTML way.
Because basically Volar and
these sort of extensions allow
us to basically identify common
problems that people sort of or
mistakes that they make when
it comes to this stuff.
And so you'll notice here we got these
error messages here because it's
saying that whenever we iterate through an
element is expected to have a V bind key
directive so what does that mean exactly.
Well, basically when you're having the
frameworks track the elements that they're
looping through, it's good to give
them some sort of identifier so
that they know whether or
not something's changed or not.
Without that identifier, you basically run
the risk of relying solely on the data to
figure out what's working and when,
especially when it comes to animation,
you will,
it'll bite you in the butt constantly.
So typically what people do then is they
will do the V bind directive because
the key needs to be a unique key for
everything.
And so we can also shortcut this
as well to just like this V key.
And then we can do something as simple as
for example, I sometimes will just take
out the index, and I'll say I will do a ES
lint stringe, sorry the ES six string.
And I'll go item dash index for example.
And so this year then basically provides a
custom key now most of the time when we're
working with databases
hopefully you have UUIDs and
that kind of thing to populate it.
But for the sake of like to sort of
demoing this at the moment, this is how
we could fulfill this requirement
by basically creating our own key.
So you'll see here,
it notices that this is, I think,
identical to the other one,
but index, it doesn't.
So there you go number index.
Great.
What does it not like about it,
it'll format it, okay?
There we go.
And just like that, we have our app now
working inside of the build tool chain.
This is the final bit
that I was talking about.
Remember how I was talking about
where we've enabled TypeScript, but
you don't have to use it?
The main thing here is that you notice
Volar is basically saying, hey,
I thought we're in TypeScript,
what's going on?
So what you've gotta do here is
go into your tsconfig.json, and
under the compiler options,
we can allowJs to true.
And that will basically prevent it from
yelling at us anymore if we don't use
TypeScript.
But on the other hand,
if anyone ever does use TypeScript,
it's just gonna work magically.
We in all the configurations
that already work?
Yes go.
>> If you have an existing project,
would you probably not
recommend trying to devise it?
>> So the question here is around.
If you have an existing project
that already works, whether or
not to switch it over to Vite.
Honestly, I most of the people who've
switched to tool chain have found very
little difference in terms of like
it's not like other build tools where,
like something usually major breaks.
So I guess a lot of it boils down
to actually your dependencies.
I would take a look at that.
If you have a lot of dependencies that
rely on some sort of Webpack build,
then in that case,
Vite might be a little premature.
But if it's a more evergreen project where
it has like standard JavaScript stuff that
is JavaScript libraries installed that
might already have ESM support for
ES modules.
Then that would be a great case for
like, let's just try and
see what happens because the performance
improvements that people are experiencing
on Vite are pretty significant.
And so honestly it's worth
like an hour time box effort,
just to see if you can improve
the DX on that regard.